So now, in definition then of what you consider
perhaps the three major areas in which
oceanography is going, if you were going to tell a
young oceanographer what he should stress in his
scientific backgrounds, what would you choose?
Well, I emphasize that I think oceanography is
going to go several major different ways in
different sciences. So I think I'd say the same
thing that I was told 20 years ago, that you want to
get a good strong background in one of the basic
sciences before getting into oceanography. And
that your value in oceanography will depend to a
large extent on how well you bring those basic
principles into the field of oceanography.
Because oceanography, as you've alluded to a
couple of times, is a very broad subject. It
involves all the sciences. But to get into
oceanography from a generalist point of view
means you don't bring any expertise yourself into
the field. And therefore, how are you going to
contribute? to advance the field in whatever
field you might choose. You have to bring an
expertise in one of the fields. So either in
physics, get a good basic background in physics or
mathematics. or geology, which would be related
to my field, or in biology or engineering. I think
ocean engineering is kind of a new field, but going
to be one that's increasingly important, already
is important, in terms of building structures at
sea, oil wells and things of this sort. One of the
basic sciences or engineering, I think, is going
to be important. One thing that's come along here
at Woods Hole in the past few years has been a marine
policy program. And the social aspects of
oceanography are increasingly important. The
legal aspects of oceanography, in terms of the Law
of the Sea conference that seems to be never
ending, probably never will end. How are we
limited? How are we going to be limited in the
future in terms of what we can do research on? We're
already being limited by excluding the
continental shelves of the world to a large
extent, except off our own shelves. And we're
going to have to develop political, bilateral
relationships with other countries to be able to
do research. That's already limited the kind of
work we can do in the oceans. If the 200-mile limit
is accepted throughout the world, that
essentially closes off about one-third or
one-quarter of the world's oceans to research.
That's a big chunk. If any country doesn't want
research done off their shores 200 miles out, they
can exclude any research being done. Whereas 20
years ago, that was never a problem. That's been a
big change in Oceania. But that's getting a little
bit off the subject of what you asked me about.
Well, that's all right, because I was going to ask
you about what you thought limits were to future
oceanographers, in effect. That's a major
limitation I see right now. Until we can get a major
conference agreement, treaty, or whatever is
required in the United Nations or elsewhere,
we're going to have to deal, as an institution or as
if we're running ships, to deal with other
countries to get clearance, either through our
State Department or directly with the other
countries, probably more likely through our
State Department. So we're going to have a
bureaucratic limitation of just getting
permission to work on other countries, in the
territorial waters of other countries. That
means that everything will be slowed down, I
think. You'll have to request that permission
years in advance, probably before you can get it.
So it means you have to do your planning much
farther in advance than we used to do. Instead of
just going out on a cruise, planning it a few months
ahead of time, you have to plan it years ahead of
time. And that's already happening. We're seeing
that now. We're getting our own research programs
planned years in advance. Essentially, we're
coming up to five-year plans, I think, is what
we're doing. Will that limit your data check, for
example? Suppose you wanted to... You made some
sort of an amazing discovery all at once in heat
flow, and you wanted to check it out someplace
else. How would you know years in advance to apply
that discovery? It'll be difficult to do that.
It'll probably have to come about, if you want to go
to a certain area very quickly, you'll have to work
with another researcher in another country off
whose shores you want to work. You won't want to
work with. And maybe that's not so bad, because it
means that that'll automatically require... or
require us to work with scientists in less
developed countries, or someone in less
developed countries, to be able to work there.
Maybe that'll force a kind of technology transfer
that we keep arguing about in this country and
finding ways of doing it. But it may not, in the long
run, be so bad for the Earth as a whole. Somehow,
we've got to distribute our knowledge and our
expertise in oceanography to the rest of the
world. The United States leads the world,
probably, and like the rest of developed
countries. But we've got to get this expertise out
to the rest of the world, too. So there's a price
we're probably going to pay for this lack of
organized activity right now. But in the long run,
I think it may be beneficial. A practical problem
concerning present world, as a matter of fact, is
energy from the ocean. Do you see, for example,
thermal heat in your study offering any relief in
terms of that? I think our basic research in
geothermal work now is directed partly to these
problems. How does hydrothermal circulation act
in the oceans? I think in the near future it's going
to be difficult to exploit that heat. There's a lot
of heat coming up. It's going to be difficult to
exploit it, partly because The heat coming out is
at low temperatures. Start with a few degrees
above the background temperature of the deep
oceans, which is almost freezing. So it's very
difficult to think of ways in which you could
utilize such low temperature heat. And it's also
diffuse. It comes out into the water and gets
distributed right away. You could think about
drilling holes down into the areas where it's hot
and piping out hot water, like is being talked
about on land. But it'll be that much more
difficult in the oceans compared to the way it's
being done on land. On the other hand, some of these
major geothermal areas in the oceans extend right
up onto the continents. One area I talked about
before was the Gulf of California, where we found
high heat flow. And that's an area which is energy
deficient. which is near population centers, at
least in Mexico, where we could perhaps be able to
exploit the heat there, get it up on land and use it.
But it's going to require advanced technology. I
don't see this coming about in a realistic way for
maybe 20 years at least. I don't think the
geothermal that geothermal is going to be the
solution to our energy problems. It may
contribute to a small extent in 10 or 20 years, but
it's not a major... I think the main contribution
of our geothermal research at sea is
understanding how the Earth works as a heat engine
in general, and that the utilization of
geothermal energy is mainly going to be on the
continents. But we may gain a lot of clues about how
these systems work on continents from the way we
study them in the oceans. For example, it's a lot
easier to make heat flow measurements on the ocean
floor than it is on the continents. We can make a lot
more of them at a cheaper price. And so we can
understand hydrothermal systems in the oceans
probably a lot more quickly than we can on the
continents because of the difficulty of
exploring on the continents. And I don't think,
you know, when you think about the heat that exists
under continental areas, the rate at which we use
energy in the United States is so large that the
geothermal energy just can't provide any large
fraction of this heat in any way. I think solar
energy is going to be much more important. And the
development of utilizing solar heat stored in the
oceans is going to be a more important aspect of
getting energy out of the oceans than the
geothermal part of it.
Excuse me, my voice just went out all of a sudden.
How do you feel the direction is going to go in
combining earth studies and ocean studies and
things like weather prediction? Do you feel as if
the oceanographer of the future will be more
broadly trained in terms of work with the land as
well as the ocean? Yeah. Well, I think we'll still
require the specialist in oceanography, but he's
going to be part of a larger group, which probably
is going to be more directed. in structure than it
has been in the past, rather than people going out
at random to study things that they're interested
in. We're probably going to have more directed
programs to understand these more applied
aspects of oceanography, very important aspects
of oceanography. How do the oceans supply heat to
the atmosphere and create the weather patterns
that we see over the continents? I think that's
going to be a very important field in oceanography
over the next 20, 30 years. probably involving
more dollars and more people than the geological
aspects of oceanography. Because the geology is
not so urgent. Well, you can't say that, too,
because there are certain minerals and things
that may be acquired in the oceans, manganese
nodules and things of this sort, over the next few
years that may become quite important. I think we
know quite a bit already about the distribution of
those manganese nodules already from the
expeditions that have gone on. But there'll be
more detailed work going on on an applied basis.
And as soon as these companies start mining this
stuff, there'll be environmental aspects that
we'll all have to worry about in the oceans.
What else? That's all I have. Do you have anything
you'd like to add to the tape? I don't think so
unless I think of something right now. I don't
write at the moment. Thank you.